Before we begin detailing the Mac Let's take a look at creating this one last major piece which is the
backpack jet pack thing.
I think this particular item will affect the look of the Mac enough where we need to do it.
Now we need to rough it in to see how it's going to look and to see what the proportions of it should
be.
I've got the 3-D cursor in the center of the grid here.
I'm going to go to the Create tab and let's just begin with the cube.
And let's just begin putting it in place on the back and seeing
how big it should be how we should scale it.
Things like that.
So I think I'm going to scale it in a bit and I'm just looking at the reference image here.
I think something like that but I think what I'm also going to do is what we did for the main body here.
I'm going to go ahead and add a subdivision surface modifier to it
and maybe give it one more subdivision level.
So we get a few more polygons out of it.
And then when I go into edit mode I'll be able to see the original cage but I think I'll hit this button
here to see the subdivided mash instead.
So now I should be able to come in here and begin moving these around a bit.
To get the shape I'm looking for.
All right so now that I've got it to this shape I'm going to go ahead and turn that edit cage button
off so I can see the low rez version and now I begin adding edge loops with control are here I should
be able to now see it change shape.
I think I want an edge loop in here to flatten it toward the back of the Mac here.
I think I'll select these edges here.
And scale these in a bit and so I'm just using this low poly cage to try and get a general shape to
the object.
So here's the shape I've come up with and it's just kind of a bulbous shape here.
I've tried to flatten the part that goes up against the back of the Mac just a bit with this edge loop
here.
I've also added an edge loop down the middle to allow me to pull these up some to give just a little
bit of an arch.
Now of course this is still early in blocking in and getting the proportions and the scale of the character.
But I think I'll go with this for now.
So in the same way we applied the subdivision surface modifier before to get some extra geometry on
the body here.
I'll do the same thing for the jet pack here.
Yeah I'll go ahead and apply the subdivision at subdivisional level one instead of two at one it'll
give me some good geometry without getting too many polygons in it.
So I'll go to object mode and I'll just come over here to the modifier and just click apply.
So now if we go into edit mode we can see we've got our base geometry for the jet pack here and we can
begin working on the details from there.
So now with the major pieces on the character here I think I would just want to take a look at its general
proportions.
I mean there are other pieces we're going to put on I have in the drawing that we're going to put on
tubes or pipes up here at the top may be jet pack exhaust cylinders down here.
There are going to be other things we're going to do but at this point in time I think it's a good idea
to take a step back and look at the overall design of the character.
And I kind of like what's going on with the body and the size of the legs here.
But I think I'd like to make the hands a little bit bigger I feel like the arms are kind of tiny compared
to the rest of the body.
So let's just work on that for now and try and get that finalized before we move on to the details.
What I'm going to do is select the arms here.
And I'd like to split the hands out from the arms.
So what I'm going to do is just tab into edit mode here and hit a to d select.
So what I'll do is just hover over these pieces and hit the L key.
I'll zoom in a bit and I'm going to continue to just hover over these pieces and hit the L key.
Now that I have these selected let me just make sure I've just got the hand selected.
I want to split the hand out as its own object.
So to do that I'm going to press P and then I'm going to choose separate by selection so that all of
these pieces will be separated out as one individual object.
So I click that and there we have our new geometry.
So I'll come back here and I'll de-select everything and then when I select the hand you can see that
it's its own object and I'll just call this and.
Now let's use this to kind of get a sense of what we might want to do here.
So I'm going to set the origin to the geometry and I'm just going to begin scaling it up and moving
it around.
So I feel like maybe something like this and I'll take a look at it from other points of view.
So I'll hit the one key on the numpad and then the five on the numpad and just see how it looks in front
view.
Hit the three key.
How it looks in the side view from the side view if you like I can almost come down like this.
So I think this is how I want it I think I'd like the hand a little bigger farther down on the body
so it can reach farther than I think it just looks a little more intimidating with the hands being so
big so I think this is what I'm going to try.
Which means now I've got to redo the arm the forearm the elbow and the upper arm but that shouldn't
take too long.
We know how to do that.
So what I want to do is go back to this the arms again and I'll go ahead and apply the mirror bonfire
this time.
And now I'm going to tap into edit mode and select these pieces here almost like this and this and I'm
going to get rid of them for now.
So I'll hit the x key and delete faces.
And I wanted to take this piece now and make it its own object so oppressed peaky and selection.
So now I'd like to place this and try and figure out where the elbow is going to be so I'll set the
origin to the geometry and begin moving this around as well.
And all I'm doing is just trying to get a sense of the size of the arm here.
And once I've got that down then I can recreate the forearm and the upper arm.
All right.
I think I've got it to where I wanted here.
In addition I think I'm going to go ahead and separate out that shoulder joint
so I'll select that with the L key hit the key and separate by selection and I'll take the origin to
geometry.
All right.
So now we've got these pieces here.
I'm going to go ahead and set the origin to the center of the sphere on this one by moving the cursor.
And then moving the origin to the 3D cursor.
Now one thing I haven't mentioned yet is you can take the cursor the 3D cursor back to the center of
the grid and also frame up everything in your scene all in one quick shortcut key and that's shift see
and that will put the cursor in the center of the grid and frame up your scene.
All right so now I've got the where the shoulder elbow and wrist is going to be I just need to recreate
the geometry for the arms.
So what I'm going to do is I will create a circle and use those to recreate the arms.
So I select this one and cursor to selected create a circle give it think we use 12 before didn't we.
And the fill type of nothing we don't want to fill it.
So I scale it down and place it
through the same thing here.
Move the cursor create a circle scale it down
move it up a bit.
Now we can use the same trick we use for the leg to bridge these two circles.
But before I do that I want to arrange them a bit and point them towards each other.
Change the pivot point on this and rotate it around the sphere just a bit.
Something like this
and maybe do the same for this one.
So they're pointing at each other.
And now I'll select these to join them together with control J.
Tab into edit mode
and bridge these together with control E and bridge edge loops now I can go ahead and add some more
geometry here as well.
So I'll increase the number of cuts to go with three.
So we have some edges to work with there.
And if I go to edge mode I can begin selecting these.
Let's put the pivot point back to the median and I can begin scaling these so they look a little the
upper arms look a little beefier.
Now let's do the same thing for the forearm.
I'll select this object snap the cursor to it.
And I'll create a circle scale it down a bit move it up and while I'm here I'll go ahead and point it
toward that elbow joint by changing the pivot point to the 3D cursor and going to rotate and swinging
it around so it points up at the elbow.
I'll do that at the front as well.
Here we go.
Now like that elbow joint move the cursor create a circle scale it
and move that into place as well.
And once again we select the two circles join them together into one object and then bridge the two
with control and bridge.
And once again I'll add a few cuts to it.
Now I can use these edges to beef it up a bit.
Change the median point or the pivot point back to medium and begin scaling these out a bit.
Yeah I like that a little bit better.
And to check that.
Let's go ahead and select all these pieces now.
The shoulder the elbow the arms the hand.
All of these.
Let's join them together with control J.
Let's take the pivot point back to the center of the grid.
And then let's mirror this over.
Let me get rid of this old arm here.
And now it's like this one and mirror it over with the mirror modifier just to see how it looks.
Yeah I think he looks a little beefier a little more intimidating with the larger hands.
So feel free to adjust yours however you like to get kind of the personality or the character that you're
looking for.
But now that I have the proportions down the way I want him I think it's time for us to begin detailing
the character and finishing it off so we can move on with the rest of the scene.